So, I hope you've enjoyed what we've talked about so far in this course. Getting data, filtering data, and so forth. But as you're probably aware, there's so much more we can actually do with our data. In this video, we're going to go over using basic math calculations with our data. After this video, you should be able to perform basic math calculations using your data, discuss in more detail the concept and the order of operations, and describe what can be done in terms of analysis by using math operators and SQL together. With math calculations, we're now getting into some techniques we can use in analysis, but also be able to use these in SQL, and be able to push them down to the database. As we've talked about in so many cases, the more we can push down to the database and have the processing power the database, the better. Again, we're usually working with larger amounts of data, so we really want to reduce that strain on the client application. The closer we can do this to the source, the better we'll be in the long run. So, we'll just start with some simple ones. We have the addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. As you can see on the left hand side, we have your standard operators for this. In this example, what I want to do is I want to get the total units on in order. And I want to have, that times by the units price to get the total order cost. What I'll do, is I'll treat this just as I would any other column that I'm retrieving. Here, I have my select. I have the different columns that I'm interested in. I have my product IDs, units on the order, and unit price. And then, I list out just as I would in any column, but I add in my operators. Here, I have my units and order times unit price. And then, I'm using an alias, AS, for what I want this new column to be named, and this is going to be the total order cost. And then I'm going to state where I want it from. As you can see, I now can retrieve four different columns; the product ID, the units on the order, the unit price, and then my new calculated column, which is the total order cost. Again, I like to bring in those other filters when I'm first calculating something, just to do a few spot checks to make sure my calculations are correct. I don't need to have the unit price and the units on the order. I could have just selected the product ID and then calculated the new field. This is just a nice little thing I like to do when I'm creating a new calculation, to make sure it all adds up and looks right. In another example, you can start to add these operators together. And, just with any math you're doing, it's going to follow your normal order of operations. You probably remember the order of operations from math classes you've taken in the past. The idea that things in parentheses are handled first, then powers are exponents, multiplication, division, addition, and subtraction. In the United States, the popular mnemonic device, "Please excuse my dear Aunt Sally", is often used. So, for this example, I'm now just going to combine division with subtraction. In parentheses, I'm just going to put what operator I want to happen first. For this, I have my unit price minus my discount, divided by the quantity. And they have that listed as my total cost. Again, it just follows the same rules. You just want to list your operators, in that new field calculation as you would for any other column that you're retrieving. So, these are pretty simple examples, but again really powerful when you start to add these together. Just be careful of your order of operation. Then if it's a new calculation you're doing, I would pull in the other fields in the beginning just to double check that the calculation, and that you can go ahead and remove those fields later as you build your query. But, it's always good to perform a safety check and make sure you're getting the results you really want.