Welcome back and congratulations,
you're finished with this module. We've really talked about a lot
of different things in regards to filtering down our data,
being specific about what we are after. We've also started to look at some math
functions, some aggregate functions, and some calculations. And then, we're wrapping up by thinking
about how to group your data and filter it out. Now, you have a lot of great
statement at your disposal and you can really use these to
write some powerful queries. As you start to write more and more complex queries,
always be sure to test out along the way. Especially, as you're doing some of
these aggregates in the beginning. Test to see how many
records you had before and then how many records you had
after you're done aggregating. Really make sure that your
understanding what you're doing. In SQL it 's very easy to get results,
so just because you can get data back, doesn't mean it's the data
you intended to get to. Just remember some of the pointers
to why we filter in SQL before we obtain the data versus,
filtering out on the client application. Again, a lot of times we're doing
this to increase our performance so we're not processing through as
much data on the client side. But it also, then,
helps us to understand our data. Getting really specific about
the values that we're looking for, finding a range of values,
finding blank values. This helps us in our
descriptive statistics. Some of those aggregate functions,
such as looking at the min, max of things. And this can really help us understand
our data and what's going on. Now, that you have learned a few different
clauses that you can use with you SELECT statement, I think it's good, just to keep
in reference, the formal structure of it. Prior to this, we talked about selecting
data and getting it from somewhere. Now, we've added up a couple
of different clauses, and it's important to remember
the order that these go in. And I've just listed these out in
order here, starting with the SELECT. So again, we're always going to have
that SELECT statement at the beginning. We're going to say where we're getting
it from and then we're going to be using our WHERE clause if we need to
do any row level filtering. Again, if we have an aggregate
function in our SELECT statement, we'll want to make sure we're
including that GROUP BY clause. Then, if we have the GROUP BY, we may want
to do some grouping and level filtering. So we'll be needing that HAVING clause. ORDER BY is always our last
thing that we put in our query. And this is just going to sort the order
of things in any way that you determine. You can see, on the right hand side,
I've listed out whether or not the statement is required. Some of these you can see,
they aren't always required. This just gives you a really
nice structured outline for a lot of the common statements and
clauses you'll be using and the order that they should be
in when writing SQL statements. Now, at this point,
you should have plenty to get you started. I hope you have a lot of fun playing
around with some of these different aggregate functions, filtering down
your data, and seeing how it changes. All right, go out there and give it a try.