Welcome, in this lesson we're
going to go over what SQL is, but more particularly how
data scientists use SQL. That's really what this class is about. I don't only want you to
understand how to use SQL, but I want you to understand how
it's used in data science and how that may be different from
how other people are using SQL. Specifically, after this lesson
you should be able to define SQL, discuss how SQL differs from
many other computer languages, explain the three primary ways SQL is
used with the database, and compare and contrast the roles of a database
administrator and a data scientist. Along with discussing the importance
of knowing what SQL syntax you're using in a given database. So let's begin with the acronym SQL and
what it stands for. This is Structured Query Language. This is the standard language for many relational database management
systems and data manipulation. SQL is used often to query,
insert, update, and modify data. At a basic level SQL is a method for communicating between you and
the database. One of the great things about SQL though
is that it's made up of statements which are descriptive words. In other words many of the commands
used in SQL are fairly easy to interpret as compared to
many other computer languages. This makes SQL, as a language,
really easy to understand and learn. However, it's important to understand
that SQL is a non procedural language. That means you wont be able to write
complete applications with it, but what you can do is interact and
communicate with data. This makes it relatively simple,
but also very powerful language. When you think about SQL,
all you need to think about is data. SQL is all about data. SQL is really used for three things. It's used to read and retrieve data, so data is often stored in a database, and
you want to retrieve it or read it. And you can use SQL as a means
to be a translator for that. SQL is also used as a way to
write data in a database. So if you need to write data in a table or
insert new data, you can use SQL as a means to do this. And finally, it's used to update and
insert new data. As you can see,
SQL has a really simple design, right. It's very contained in what it's able to
do, which is read, write, and update data. Because of this you will find there are
a lot of people who are able to use this language. If we look at this graph, what we see is the SQL language ranked
by the number of programming jobs. This is form Indeed.com in 2016. It ranked SQL as the number one language. There's a lot of jobs out there
the require the use of SQL, and it's not just for data science. It's important to understand
how others use SQL and how other people other than data scientist
and programmers might be using it. There are many, many people who
might use SQL in their jobs. This includes everything from backend
developers, QA engineers, data architects, system engineers, obviously data
scientists, and even data analysts. But the ones I want to talk about
a little bit more are the DBAs, or database administrators, and
how they compare to data scientist. A DBA is responsible for managing
the entire database and guarding it. A data scientist, on the other hand,
is typically a user of that database. The DBA will be responsible for
giving permissions to people and determining who has access to what data. They're often times responsible for
managing the tables and creating them. We're going to go over how to
create your own tables and insert data into them in a later video. However this is something you'll
likely have to get the rights to and often from a DBA. The ways the two positions, DBA and
data scientist, are similar is that they both use SQL to understand
the data, to query it, and retrieve it. They both write very complex queries, but the main difference is that the data
scientist is really the end user. Whereas the DBA is the one
who administers it, governs it, and
manages the database, as a whole. Data scientists have to
be able to retrieve data. We know we can't do anything until
we actually have the data to work with, right. We need a way to go and get that data. SQL is really fundamental in data
science because you really can't start building any models or doing any
predictions until you have the data. SQL is the means to go into a database and
get this data. Data scientists might also use
this to create their own table or test environment. Let's say you've built a model and
you want to deploy that, and you want to add it back into the table. You may need to create your own table or
test environment to add that into. One thing that is not unique with data
scientist, or other people using SQL, is that you often times are combining
multiple tables together and a lot of times this leads to a bit more complex
queries to be written for analysis. Data scientists, though the number
one way that they're using SQL is really to be able to
retrieve their data for analysis, they might do a little
of the analysis using SQL. However, the main thing they're
using SQL for is for data retrieval. The last thing I want to point out is
that just because you're learning SQL in the class, the syntax of what you're
writing may change a little bit based on the relational database
management system you're using. Again, you can think of SQL as the
interpreter between you and the database. How you write some of the syntax for
SQL is going to depend on the relational database management system
you're interacting with. Extending our analogy you can
think of this as the accent or maybe as the dialect. SQL is able to translate it for you,
but sometimes you have to tweak it a little bit based on the database
management system you're using. Here I've listed just some of the popular
ones, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL. In this class we'll be using SQLite. So I'll be teaching you
this syntax based on that. I want to point out this though because I
think it's important to understand that if there's something that doesn't work
correctly when you copy data from this class into another application you are
using at work, definitely check the type of relational database management
system you're using and see if that makes a difference. I'll talk about this some
more in an upcoming video, including some of the ways to figure
out what those differences might be. Okay, that's it for this lesson. And you should be able to tell
others what SQL stands for and discuss how it difference from
other common computer languages. You should also be able to explain a few
ways that SQL is used in a database. Understand the roles of a database
administrator and a data scientist, and be able to explain the importance of
knowing the SQL syntax you're using within a database management system.