So in our last lesson, we went over how
to create tables in a database using SQL. Another option we have is to create
a copy, essentially of another table or pull a subset from another table. We can create a whole table from this, or we can create what is
called a temporary table. And that's what we're going to
go over in this video. After this lesson, you should be
able to create temporary tables, describe the limitations of temporary
tables and discuss some strategies for researching syntax for
particular database management systems. First of all, the most important thing
to know about these temporary tables is that these will be deleted when
the current client session is terminated. That's why they're
called temporary tables. However, these are really good to use
because they are lot faster than creating a real table. So if you have complex queries and
you want to simplify it a bit by creating a subset and
then joining to that subset and driving a new calculation from that,
then temporary tables are a great option. For this, we use the statement
create temporary table. Then we put the name of the temporary
table we want to create. Then this I'm pulling in as
a subset from another table. I'm going to say add, then in my brackets, I'm going to put my select statement
of where I want to get this from. In this case, I'm pulling a subset
of data from my shoes table. Right here I am just creating a temporary
table that is the shoe type sandals. Now I create an individual table which
is just going to have the shoes that are sandals. As mentioned before, the way you create
tables, update them and insert them is heavily dependent on the relational
database management system you're using. In this class we're using SQLite. However, you do not have
write privileges to this. You won't be able to
write any data to this. But I think it's important to realize
you need to look up this information on your own based on
the company you're at, and the type of relational database management
system they're using at that time. This graph depicts
the flow of what you need, in order to create a temporary table. So as you can see,
there's a little bit more detail here. What I would highly recommend is looking
up the Relational Database Management System you're using, and then finding the
syntax detail for how to create the Table, with the Relational Database
Management System you're using. It's really great if you can
become your own researcher and trouble shooter when working with SQL. The key is to really never stop learning,
learning how to optimize your queries or how to work with relational
database management systems. For this, I really want to teach you
the core basics and the fundamentals so that you would know how to think
logically about these problems and work through them. At the end of the day,
you're going to be your own best teacher. For this, I recommend googling or
using stackoverflow, which is a site dedicated to asking and
answering coding questions. You'll be able to get a lot
of great information there. As this language is dependent on the
database management system you're using, make sure that when you're typing or
researching these items, that you're typing the name of
the database management system in as well. This will be helpful because you may find
the solution to your problem implemented. There may be different syntax based on
the relational database management system your using. I'd like to challenge you to research
some of this things on your own based on the relational database management
system you're using at work. Go ahead and look up the statements for
updating tables and deleting tables and see if there's anything related to the
database management system you're using. So to wrap up, in this lesson we learned
how to create temporary tables and write data to them. We also covered some limitations
of using temporary tables. Chiefly, that they are temporary,
and we talked about some strategies to research
different syntax for SQL statements. I really encourage you to do
some research in this regard. You will always learn a lot when you go
out and explore these topics on your own.